all right good morning everybody
welcome uh to this beautiful uh room in
sastra i think uh i'm very happy that we
got the best room definitely the best
view of the whole venue
uh i'm here today talking about scaling
from 10 to 100 million in arr sharing
the good the bad and the ugly
um i founded co-founded show pad about
11 years ago
together with my co-founders louis and
peter
and you know since then we've grown the
company by the end of the year we should
cross that magical 100 million dollar ar
mark
and i'm very happy to be here with you
to share some of the lessons
learned along that journey
i've led the company as its ceo from
obviously founding the company to a
couple of months ago
two months ago i handed over the helm of
the company to our ceo
somebody who i hired six years ago
who has grown with the company and so i
now have a bit of time to do these
conferences and share a bit some of the
lessons
learned
the first slide i wanted to show is this
quote it's a famous quote of of jason
lemkin
getting from zero to one
is impossible getting from one to ten is
unlikely and getting from 10 to 100
million are is inevitable
and for me
i remember thinking you know when jason
tweeted this quote chopat was about
i think you know we were somewhere north
of a probably one or two million arar
you know
growing fast
scaling but you know still a very small
company i remember thinking man i really
need to make sure that we get to that 10
million so that uh you know that we get
to that inevitable stage and get to that
100 million
in arr
as i'm sure
a lot of you come for probably the bad
and the ugly let's start with the good
because obviously
starting a company growing a business
is an amazing journey and for me what i
really enjoyed about you know building
and growing uh chopat to this day is
turning a vision into a reality
when we started show pat
we basically
wanted to solve
a problem
and make sure that we deliver value to
customers and and we started a company
my first company was a mobile app
developer
out of belgium
again founded that company 12 years ago
anticipating the the mobile revolution
and while we were building that company
that was a service business and we were
looking for hey you know we want to
build a product company get recurring
revenue streams
we were on the lookout for like a
product to develop a problem to solve
and one of my friends he had an
artificial grass business
so
artificial grass comes in all kinds of
forms shapes specifications
he had a big reseller network
and so he was always they were doing a
lot of trade shows
they had they had to provide their
resellers with marketing materials
in many many different european
countries
and
i was traveling with him when i heard
him on the phone like being quite upset
because
his marketing agency had delivered
german
marketing and sales collateral
to a french in france on a french trade
show so that that was pretty bad you
know it's hard to have a boot on a
french trade show full of german
collateral
and again this was 12 years ago and and
i was like well you know
i heard i overheard a conversation i
told him like hey why don't you just buy
all of your sales guys
or girls and girls an ipad and just you
know get get the content on the ipad and
make sure they can present and share the
materials from from a tablet device
but as it turned out 12 years ago that
was like super hard to just get content
on a tablet
easily share that you basically had to
email it yours you know to your inbox
and then open it in ibooks and again it
was very clunky experience and so
basically that's how we came up with the
idea of show pad started building the
product but initially
you know we didn't have a really bold
vision or a big vision we just you know
built a product that solved a very
specific problem making sellers
productive on a trade show
eventually as we built the first product
started to
market it online sell it we had a free
trial people could use it we got some
traction
we realized like whoa okay you know
we're getting we're starting to get good
feedback but but we missed a a
a bigger bolder vision of you know where
is this going like people were asking us
like hey you know how are we going to
evolve the product how are we going to
evolve the company
and so that's when we started focusing
on
on what we call buyer experience because
ultimately
what showpad solves is is that buyer
experience
and we developed this big vision we've
developed that we wanted to impact buyer
experience for for basically all
customer facing teams in the world we we
made sure that we evolved from that
single product solving a content problem
to a broader platform i'll talk more
about that later but that really helped
us to you know propel the company
ship the right ship the right
functionality
get traction uh attract money from
investors and that's really exciting to
see as a founder where you start with
this
basically what seems like a very simple
problem solve you know make sure that
sellers have the right content on on a
boot on a trade show to like a broader
platform vision um that that helps uh to
power uh buyer experiences for uh for
commercial teams and so today this
vision has turned into a reality show
but as a as a multi-product platform
we've we're integrated in uh
with all the market sales and marketing
technology you could wish for and we've
obviously built a whole um
whole product around that but also
services a marketplace of applications
we have third-party developers
developing on top of our platform so i
think that's what i really enjoy about
like growing a company from you know
zero to where it is today
the second thing which i really enjoy
is the people part i think what is
really good about scaling
a company is is the amazing people you
get to hire the amazing people you get
to work with
the talent that you can see
growing in your company
and you know taking along amazing people
on that journey
and the screenshot i shared here is a
screenshot from culture amp i think some
of you might know culture amp we use it
to track engagement at show pad we've
been tracking that over the last six
years now so it's a great way of of
measuring
engagement how engages the workforce
it's basically a
if you work together with culture amp
it's basically a fixed set of questions
we've been asking over the
over the past six years
and the end score the aggregate score is
an engagement score which you can use to
measure
engagement at your company and again
it's not you know
we use it as one data point um
to measure and especially i think what's
really interesting is obviously as you
drill down into you know teams regions
managers
you can even
filter it across age groups or gender
and stuff like that so it's really
interesting data but i think what i'm
really proud of and really enjoying and
building a company is that we've
over the last years we've actually as we
scaled as a business uh growing from you
know show that it's close to 600
employees now
we've managed to actually improve
the engagement of our workforce and that
that's you know that's a lot of hard
work and um because as you can see we
started off two years ago
at about 80 68
again if you would benchmark this this
is still a reasonably good score
probably if you compare it across across
many different companies
but we made a deliberate effort to
really
increase that engagement to also drive
our
attrition down to make sure that people
stay longer at the company or happier
feel that they can have an impact and
basically the way that
i approached this and we approached this
with the executive team was treating
culture as a product itself
and you know making sure you gather a
lot of data
again culture amping um being one of the
ways that we measure it and the input
that we get there also talking obviously
with a
a lot of a lot of people in the company
getting ways to get feedback on how
we're doing as a business what can we
improve
and i think what a couple of the really
impactful things that we've done is one
really deliberate investment in
leadership skills i think
if you're scaling a business it's it's
so important as you evolve from
you know being a group of 10 20 30
people where you all know each other
where it's not needed to have the values
on the wall because everybody knows
those values or lives those values
where it's a very informal culture
and it's not really outspoken to really
be we became
very deliberate about our culture so
um
putting the values on the wall but again
it means nothing if you don't
operationalize that and put it into
practice
and so some of the things that we've
done there is a program to really invest
in leadership skills across every people
manager at chopat they get a boot camp
we work with uh
with some partners there who uplevel the
skills of people we create
idps individual development plans
of leaders and every employee
we also made sure that the values in our
company
that consistently
every two weeks we have this we call it
the show pie it's uh because we've
always uh in the early days we would
always eat pie on on a thursday
afternoon
there's a pie shopper under uh on the on
the ground floor of our office or our
first office and so we have a show pi
it's basically our all hands accompany
all hands we do that every thursday but
we also started to like we developed a
system where people could nominate
colleagues anonymously
why they they should um get a showing
award
um and the showings are our values and
so every two weeks we celebrate one
employee who then exemplifies
a certain
you know value that we think is very
important and again all these things
we've we've put a lot of effort in this
and i'm you know super proud last two
years again
tough times especially for a company
like chopit we had a big office culture
in our offices in chicago and in ghent
london munich poland rutschoff being
some of our biggest hubs in san
francisco
um but obviously with the pandemic
people were working from home working
remotely
and you know despite that challenging
environment we actually managed to
increase the engagement
of our
of our employees and that i think is
really yeah it's just fun it's rewarding
and it's then great to see people
you know building careers being
successful at your company and the
impact of evolving
that engagement score in that way is
that it it has this is the
the graph where you can see or um or
reten retention or attrition actually so
it's a percentage of people annualized
attrition by quarter of showpad and so
like we've seen a massive downward trend
now we're actually close to like 20 it's
still too high for my liking at 600
employees
but uh so we're aiming to get it sub 20
but really investing in culture treating
it as a product investing in leadership
and making sure that your employees have
a good um understanding of their what's
my career path
at show pat in the early days you
you just don't you i'm not gonna say you
don't care but you're again you're 20 30
people working hard but the moment you
you come at like 50 people 100 people
200 people
you need to think about like how do
careers of people you know what's the
what's the road of different roles um
and different level of experience at the
company and so this had a massive
investment a massive impact on our
attrition at the company so um so around
20 so basically means on average people
stay five years at showpad which again
would love to it to be higher but i
think that's already a good uh
good place to be
then on to the bad
um i think the first thing i want to
talk about is is
creating a category and you would hear
this often especially when when you know
talking with vcs or building your
products like people always you know
there's generally sometimes there's a
question like are you you know are you
building a new category or you're
creating a category it's a for some
people it's an obsession
um
and
when we started show pad
we're in the sales enablement category
now there now there's a category when we
started showpad we did we didn't have a
clue of what category we were in we were
basically solving a specific problem for
you know sales and marketing teams and
we're focused on delivering
value there but as you obviously start
to talk with more customers as you start
to talk with vcs as you start to
talk with analysts you start to realize
like okay
you know if people are able to put your
company or software into a category it
actually helps with selling more deals
it helps with
closing funding rounds because people
have a better understanding in which
space you're in it impacts
attracting certain talent to the company
so
but it's also
extremely hard
and it takes way more
um way more time than you would ever
think to to to build out a category and
it's also something with with show pad
i think again in the early days
we were basically an ipad app
for sales teams sales enablement wasn't
a thing then as you as you spend time
with like
analysts and then you see this you know
we saw the term sales enablement come up
and there was one company at the time
who had kind of was kind of a big owner
of that category but they were like an
on-prem
super old school software
vendor
and so over time you know as you invest
you know money and marketing as you
you get more competition i think here
it's really important
when creating a category it's actually
good to have some
some really strong and good competitors
i actually think it's it really helps to
you know you can basically use some of
their
vc dollars as well to evangelize the
space to to create more awareness about
uh
about the category you're in
and then you just have to make sure when
people are researching your solution
that you show up and and that you can
you know close and win those deals but
the reason
why i think it's important because it's
imp you know understanding that category
impacts marketing product marketing in a
big way
how you're positioning your solution so
i think that's that's really important i
think also another reason it's hard is
again it takes a lot of dollars you need
to do so much evangelizing show up at a
lot of events collaborate with with
other players in the space
um i mean if you think about the
enablement category so you have sales
enablement but then adjacent to chopat
there's companies like
a clary or a sales loft or an outreach
or a sixth sense or
and again all these players together do
help to like
you know build more momentum into the
space but again that takes time it takes
patience and
but the moment that that category is
there so for example in the beginning
there were no forester waves there was
no gartner magic quadrant there you know
now there's been you know a couple of
forester waves on like sales content
management um
there's there's also coming one on
enablement
there's there's a gartner has now
released several reports also covering
our industry not yet a magic quadrant
but they say it's coming so again it
takes time i think another great example
um
which i always love to give here as well
as is uh nick mehta who's a who's a
friend of mine i think what he did with
gain side and and like really basically
creating the the customer success
category is also a great example that it
takes time it's hard but it's definitely
worth it
the second thing which i think is really
um
you know which at showpad we we
definitely underestimate it and that's
why i put it in the bat because you know
the things i put here in the bad it's
not not necessarily because it's been
bad for chopin but it's because it's
been much harder
than i thought it would be um
and for us that's been the the evolution
from
going from single product
to like a multi multi-product um
solution and we started off as a
basically a you know a content solution
right solving the content content
struggle for sellers making sure they
could find the right materials as we
evolved from that ipad app we became
available on the web we integrated with
crm we've we've you know made sure we
were available on ipads table ipads
smartphones wherever sellers would live
the first thing that we solved was the
content struggle
but again as we build up that bigger
vision had that platform vision
realizing that if you want to make sure
that sellers deliver a great buyer
experience
you also have to make sure they're smart
and informed
that they can engage with the with the
modern buyer in a great way and so we
started developing
you know a road map around that and that
involved we've done a number of
acquisitions
um so we've we've acquired a company
called hiccup and they actually had
built a
a platform to to basically create
experiences on top of showpad so
imagine
most sales teams especially 10 years ago
they would just have pdfs powerpoints
and videos those were the most of the
assets that they were using
we acquired a company that on top of our
apis had built like a solution to
basically create
more immersive experiences think about
playbooks guided selling
kind of roi calculators type of things
which are way more engaging to interact
with
with sellers
and so that was our first step into like
becoming
what i would describe multi-product
making sure we not only have a great way
to you know
find content but then also like to to
you know create playbooks that was a
first step then we started investing in
in what i would call the you know
engagement layer which is more about
like
um personalization
creating collections then we acquired a
company called learncore which was all
about training and coaching because we
believe like
okay sellers if they find the right
content that's great if they can now
personalize that and share that and
great and marketing has and sales have a
lot of insights but you also need to
train and coach them in the right way
because else they cannot deliver that
great buyer experience so we've acquired
a company focused on training and
coaching
and that
and that really was the i would say the
big step and kind of a manifestation of
that platform vision
it was also like we acquired that
company it's now three years ago but
that also was a big struggle or four
years ago it was also a big big struggle
in terms of integrating it it took way
more time to integrate that product it
totally changed how we we went to market
or aes or customer success teams they
were used to talking
you know content and engagement and
those plays playbooks that was all kind
of like in the same realm and and pretty
easy to kind of
you know pitch and sell and we had like
you
i would say predominantly the marketing
persona we were selling into and being a
sales name and solution a lot of the
content is owned by marketing but
suddenly we're talking about sales
training sales coaching you have to
involve sales methodology so the way not
only on the product side we had to like
figure out how to you know learncore was
about 50 people
had about i think at the time
might be might be off one or two million
probably six or seven million in aar at
the time when we acquired them
um
and
you know integrating that solution on
the product side
way more
took you know we thought it would take
like a year it basically took us two
years but then also like retraining the
whole go-to market organization
um
making sure that people
adapted to the value proposition which
evolved making sure that we from a
product marketing point of view get our
act together making sure that
you know your messaging in the market is
consistent i think that is something
that we really underestimated because
like
you're basically you have to retrain and
re-enable i mean the good thing is we
have software to do that our own
solution but we had to like go through a
whole cycle of like retraining the
entire go-to-market organization on that
and that was that was pretty tough and
as well what happened another thing
when we acquired learn core
50 of their revenue came from selling
into like hr organizations because they
were training and coaching platform and
a lot of training coaching even some of
those sales training courses were owned
by hr at some companies and 50 came from
from yeah the the true sales use case
we made the wrong assumption that it
would be quite easy to convert that
other 50 the 50 that was sold to hr that
we would say yeah you know they will
understand that they now need show pad
as well to like
you know do more and we'll get we're
going to foot in the door with the
marketing organization and again that
was wrong
and so what happened is
you know churn started to
we had basically
up until that point always had like
single-digit gross churn
um amazing net retention but suddenly
like or our gross churn was like double
digits it was like we had a year of like
50 you know going from like eight
percent to like 15 or 16 because we were
churning out those customers who hadn't
bought us for that use case that they
were now
part of and again that stuff like as a
company like you're you're basically
turning to revenue the good thing is we
got good traction on the platform side
and we were able to basically evolve our
customers from a single product line to
now you know having a content product a
training and coaching product um
we later on also um acquired a company
called voice fox like we have a bunch of
customers using our meeting intelligence
products things like that but it was
definitely a tough journey and it took
us you know way longer to to evolve
there and then if you're
if you're becoming multi-product make
sure
you think through the steps very
carefully and and really think about
like impacts on product marketing
enablement um
all those um all those things
then uh we're on to the ugly uh maybe uh
maybe the the most interesting uh uh
part uh here of the presentation and and
i i've i mean obviously
uh
you know the journey of show pat there's
always there's always tougher tougher
moments when you scale a company and
i've decided to share like two things
which i think are are really key
when scaling and where you know we've
definitely had our struggles
as we grew as a company
and i think this is an important one
here hiring the wrong executives and
the way i see it as a
ceo of the company or as you know
leaders in your company basically hiring
the right talent is probably one of the
most most important things that you do
especially when you're scaling and then
making sure there's a
structure in place to
scale also hiring the right
talent into the companies but obviously
hiring executives is definitely one of
the most important things the ceo needs
to do
and i think that from my experience like
the way i think about hiring execs very
simplistically put is like you you look
at
there's obviously a skill experience
element that's really important um
there's um there's the i would say the
mindset of the people that you interview
and then there's there's also like a
culture fit kind of and it's it's linked
to mindset but still you could have
people who are definitely an amazing
cultural fit with the company but maybe
don't necessarily have the right mindset
and for example an example would be
you have an amazing you know big shot
executives who who definitely has proven
that he or she could like scale
into the next phase with your company
has it you know definitely you know you
you interview for the values and and you
see all those things you know check
check check like you feel a great
cultural fit with the company but then
there's also an aspect for example of
mindset meaning you know do they have
the the tenacity the grit like the drive
to really make sure like to do maybe
something that they've done once or
twice already in the past again with all
of the like effort and intensity
involved
and and for me
i think and timing here is super
important i think where i've made
when i made mistakes in executive hiring
for me it centers around either
compromising on the you know skill
experience
uh mindset cultural fit and making a
compromise there because you want to
move too quickly and second thing is
like getting the timing wrong in the
sense of like either bringing in
somebody
with too much experience
too early or somebody who's basically
has the right experience for the moment
for the time that you're at but not
who won't help you scale into that next
phase
and ultimately
it's you know it's not an exact science
i think there's um
uh
yeah there's there's a lot of time you
spend as a ceo interviewing uh people
what i learned how to like do this
better and how to really make sure that
that you
you get the right executives there is
making it more of a collaborative effort
at some point with once you have hired
some strong
leaders involve them as well in the
hiring process be very deliberate what
everybody interviews for
and also leverage your network and
experts
that you have in certain domains because
you know to really then make sure
you definitely want to chat you know to
check off the skills and experience box
i think is really easy i think to check
off mindset and cultural fit which i do
think are also two really important
elements
just
you know
takes time and takes multiple people to
interview because people ask you know
different questions probe into different
things
and and another lesson that i learned is
take take more time like even when
you're
in pain in the sense of like oh we we
need this person now
um and and you found somebody who's
maybe you know
80 85 percent there you're kind of like
maybe it's even 19 but you know as long
as you have you know
some doubts
you know don't settle
you know dive in deep and and i think
the moments that i haven't done that and
one example there is you know we were
crossing like 10 million are growing
really nicely
hired
at some point in a short amount of time
we hired some executives into into the
us because like again things were
exploding there and we needed more
leadership and
and basically as i reflect upon like
some of the highers i made there
again it was a compromise on one of the
three dimensions there skill experience
mindset
cultural fit
and then getting the timing not 100
wrong and at some point basically
what happened is i i basically made the
decision like i came to the conclusion
like oh my go-to market leadership is
like
you know off
and decided to make a change was pretty
tough because at some point uh
basically the entire go-to-market
leadership i decided to replace them but
i didn't have like any new people yet
so
i ended up with like 18 direct reports a
pretty a pretty tough couple of months
but you know
took the time to like
change the way we hire
also you know having a bigger focus on
diversity for example making sure we
make more collaborative efforts change
the interview process and i think
eventually we came out
um a lot stronger
and then my my last um
topic that i like to cover is ceo
exhaustion because i founded chopad 11
years ago up until two months ago you
know run the company as a ceo chopat
basically
has a big presence in the u.s a big
presence in europe which also meant i
spent you know pre-pandemic for sure
spent a lot of time
in the u.s you know lived for a couple
of years half-time in the u.s half-time
in europe in between a ton of travel
and
and for me i think this is something
that i you know i see i see a lot with
fellow
founders fellow ceos i'm also a pretty
active angel investor and
in the early days when i founded chopat
it was basically
you know basically you work you work day
and night you work through the weekends
didn't have the most healthy
lifestyle um you know basically you know
not eating super healthy obviously when
you're building a company it's fun to go
out with the team you know drink some
beers a lot of travel
and then at moments there will be very
intense
moments as well of like and maybe
elevated stress you know fundraising
people who quit um big customer you lose
a
release that's not on track
you know
there's always stuff happening right and
for me i always thought
i'm immune to i'm immune to stress i'm
i'm immune to like you know i i can
basically keep doing this for you know
how
whenever however how long i i wanted to
do this
um but you know in in those 11 years i
had like two episodes and i'm like
they lasted a couple of weeks but i'm
generally like a super good sleeper
um
i've overall i would say i've generally
lived reasonably healthy but definitely
not the first years way too way too
short nights i thought i didn't need
sleep you know like the the hustle
culture you know like work hard play
hard
um but at a certain moment in time like
uh my body just said like i went from
like being an extreme good sleeper and
sleeping like
literally i go to bed and a minute later
i'm asleep to like having insomnia and
like laying away all night
lying awake all night and saying like
hey [__] like you know what is this
and you know eventually i made some
change you know that made me realize
like okay health is like pretty
important as a ceo i think if you're if
you're exhausted if you're tired
if you're fatigued
you're gonna make you know probably not
the best decisions
you're it's gonna impact your team it's
impacting your company it's impacting
how you show up in front of investors
customers the team things like that so
as i had like my first kind of like whoa
exhaustion episode where my body
basically and that insomnia was just a
way of my body saying like hey pj like
after
you know
50 jet lags in in the last couple years
and stuff like that like
i need some rest and basically started
meditating
started being more focused on you know
partying a little bit less with the team
on the friday nights or in the week or
you know like have a drink here and
there things like that
really kind of living a super healthy
lifestyle it helped me to be a way
better ceo be more rested
and i see i really think it's really
important to prioritize your well-being
so that you're going to show up better
for your team you're going to show
better for the company
and and for me you know those two
episodes really learned me that i think
as a founder the most important thing
that we all have is our health and our
well-being and i shared some of those
stories as well internally with the
company to also show like hey it's like
it's okay if you're if you have you know
if you're fatigued if you're feeling
burned out if you're you know
what is really important is also to you
know recover and it's like every
every great athlete in the world
you know
why why they really perform is because
they actually there's moments of big
intensity races you know think moments
they need to show up and perform but
they also know really well how to
recover and make sure that they listen
like listen to their body listen picking
up the signals of okay i need to rest or
change my routines a bit or adapt and
for me that has been a big change i just
pick up the signals earlier i try to you
know it's still super intense and no
matter what like building and growing a
business is always going to be intense
and it's always going to be a lot of
hard work and there's going to be
moments that you're you're going to be
flat out for you know a couple of couple
of days couple of weeks but make sure
that you pick up on the signals
um encourage you to definitely think
about like hey what can small habits can
really improve
uh lifestyle productivity
and ultimately have a way better impact
on the company because ultimately the
moments that i was fatigued and the
moments that i wasn't showing up really
well
or also the moments that again you know
exact team notices it the employees
notice it and again think about that um
as you grow and scale your company so uh
i have one minute left and then we're
going to do some q a so start thinking
about uh
start thinking about your questions
some of my key takeaways is i think
and maybe the first one i should maybe
rephrase that a little bit like
the way that we start is like
solve a specific
solve a specific problem and we've
actually
maybe
it's maybe how the reverse of how some
other companies have done it but from
solving that specific problem we've kind
we've built an amazing vision around
that um that helped us to guide our
decisions and our product and then
really focused on building culture as a
product in our company
the second thing is if you want to build
a category and sometimes i'm jealous of
fellow founders ceos who have like a
super
clear
you know buyer persona category they're
in very clear what they're disrupting
doing things but no if you you want to
create a category it's going to take
more time and you know quite a lot of
you know dollars to to make it happen
but it's also super rewarding and and
amazing if it works out and if
if you can grow uh you know one once you
get that kind of additional oxygen in in
the
in in your company because of your part
of a category now and then i think
in terms of hiring make sure you hire
the best for the next phase try to get
that timing uh think about that timing
think about those different dimensions
which which i shared and make sure to
prioritize your own uh
well-being don't don't run into the
exhaustion trap which i've seen many
people run into
and
yeah
that's it so i hope you guys enjoyed
the session
and we have a mic over there so feel
free to ask me anything if i see any
hands in the air
we're going to have a mic coming over so
i think we're going to take like a
couple of 5 or 10 minutes or 15 minutes
to do some questions i see a question
there
hey my name is ac i lead stitch a
fashion tech company i was really
curious you were talking about the step
from 10 million to 100 million what's
the biggest difference with the first
phase when you went from one to ten um
i thi i think
one to ten for me is is you're you're
way more we were at least way more
focused on like figuring out the product
yes we're already selling but it was
like
not
yet in a super repeatable way so we were
there was a big focus on the product
there was i would say less
you know we had less kind of kpis to
know like hey how are we doing on the go
to market side like what is
for example now show pad runs of like
four or five key metrics that we measure
and we're really focused on on improving
so it's for example ltv over cac and we
we want to see lifetime value over cost
of acquisition we want it to be you know
at four or higher that that's where we
want to be we're looking at net
retention we always needs to be you know
we have certain targets per quarter
depending on the renewal rate but it's
like
we have targets there uh we're looking
at attrition like we want to get that
sub 20 so we're doing a lot of we focus
a big group of people around those kpis
and try to make it clear how to
influence it i think in the first phase
it's like it's a bit more
chaos i would say
it's a you're you're less maybe i mean
at least from our side we were we were
still kind of figuring out what is the
category we're in um we were still
figuring out like
you're also like constantly up leveling
that team in and i would say
in the beginning you don't have managers
directors vps all of those things and
you know obviously i think once you
cross that 10 million mark
usually you're going to be more than 100
employees you need way more structure
you need to think about communication
you need to think about like things need
to become a bit more
repeatable
um people expect you need to give a bit
more guidance to people
i think that's that's the biggest change
uh maybe in in summary it's more from
you know from chaos to a bit more
structure i would summarize it so
cool i saw another hand here oh there in
the back cool
i'm the tower co-founder and cto of
voice my question is
what structure of
management meetings or executive
meetings did you find worked
at this stage yeah so at our stage it's
it's we have a pretty simple structure
we basically have um one one executive
meeting
um
every week and it's like uh
it's at last maximum 90 minutes we try
to make it shorter if possible there's a
good amount of work collaboration that
we already do over slack or over
i would say it's more google docs and
and google slides where we collaborate a
lot
as a ceo i had my weekly one-on-one
stand with everybody on the exact team
and the only exception was i i would
probably
spend two times uh
i had two meetings with this cfo and ceo
but more like 30 minutes like two times
a week
and then we had a um we have a like
every two weeks we do more kind of like
a
meeting more focused on the go-to-market
side of things which is like a longer
meeting which is the go to market
leadership runs and again they set an
agenda and we would have every two weeks
a more product focused uh meeting which
again product uh product would run and
we would make sure we would select the
right leaders to be present in those
meetings um generally i find meetings to
be uh the biggest the biggest
maybe that's also a difference with with
zero to 10 and 10 to 100 is like the
more you grow i think organizations as
they grow and have more leadership it
tends to increase the number of meetings
i would say as a founder ceo try to
fight super hard
to limit the amount of meetings make
them productive make sure that
you know there's an agenda that you know
people take ownership because i see a
lot of time being wasted
in basically useless
useless meetings
so try so try to have as few as you can
yes there's a
first
okay yeah we'll pass along to you then
perfect
can i go okay first thanks a lot uh i do
have two questions
the one is about how did you go from
your service company at the beginning i
think it was an agency yeah to a product
company yeah
and the second if you can if you can
share uh what was the evolution of your
of the pricing of your product from when
you started to now
so agency to product um very short
answer there the agency still exists we
are
three owners in the in that business no
venture capital and it's 160 people uh
growing nicely organically and turning
in ebit i always always joke that i know
how to build a company that's profitable
but then
and how we did that is we were lucky
that one of the one of our founders in
that agency business decided not to like
you know
join on the chopat journey for for hit
for his reasons uh but we we made it
work and uh we always uh we basically
surrounded uh and then made sure that
our first founder and that services
service business had some great people
to help him focus on the server side and
he's really excited about service and
positive ebitdas and growing a business
like that and louie and myself focused
on the product so i would say it was
mainly due to the setup
that we had and the first two years the
businesses were somewhat intertwined
although we had set up
pretty quickly separate legal entities
and there was a chinese wall in between
them in terms of like you know people
and and revenue and and resources but we
did leverage some of the resources from
our service business but we would always
because we had a founder who was not in
show pad basically or we gave we did
give him a little bit of shares um to
make those conversations easier but we
would always make sure that we would
have like a
kind of like okay if we're using you
know 100 hours of developers from our
service business we would basically
add it to the depth of show pad and say
hey that's when we're going to pay it
back
then sorry what was your second question
pricing yes um pricing evolved like in
the beginning we had a
basically
we had a free trial um we were kind of a
plg type of
product in the early days with a i think
our pricing when we launched it was like
it was good better best already from the
start basically um ver you know very
basic and and basically the best was
more kind of like had some enterprise
functionality
the the best
the good
sorry the good was like very basic
better
more around experiences best enterprise
and i think it evolved from like it's
always been user based
per user per month
one year up front i think the big
difference now is that we always do we
don't do one-year contracts anymore it's
always two or three-year contracts
uh paid up front for a year
um and again in the early days it was
still possible to pay with credit card
and do monthly and like but
chop it sells into pretty traditional
businesses 75 of our revenue comes from
like
traditional businesses like johnson and
johnson or or like
big manufacturers schneider electric
things like that with big field sales
forces
and so we've
you know we went more into the
enterprise route and also built it
around services packaged there and and
you know added like enterprise
functionality and so i would say now
it's
it's still 97 of our revenue is
recurring but we definitely i think the
pricing probably tripled on average
probably over the last 11 years i mean
that that would be probably the summary
where on average in the game was like 19
per user per month i think we're now at
like
on the high side probably close to
closer to 100 and on the low side
probably closer to like 40 you know 39
40ish
there was a question here yes
thank you very much um so first question
is um you mentioned competition yes i
was curious
how did you find your uniqueness
and second
uh what do you see as next in a market
big market trends in the sales sector
yep so i think how do you find so good
question competition and uniqueness i
think how you find it is just spend a
lot of time with your customers i would
say they once you
reach a certain scale they have all
the answers and for example what makes
showpad really unique is that whole
experience layer that we have in terms
of where you can take that content to
like the next level in terms of like
we have customers doing obviously guided
selling type of things but also really
interactive things like augmented
reality or 3d things and we've built a
lot of
a lot focused on traditional businesses
and manufacturing companies and things
like that we've built a lot of like
unique functionality there
and listen to your customers i always
say customers to the product team
customers they have
most of the answers not all of them but
definitely a good amount
uh a good amount of the answers and i
think what's next for an industry i
think i mean obviously it's an exciting
industry there's a couple of big players
in there we have seismic high spot uh
show pad on the like i would say
enablement content focus side but it's
also very interesting to see how like
sales loft outreach
uh a gong a clary
we're all ultimately i mean we're
solving different problems and many of
those companies are very focused on the
tech
vertical i mean except for maybe seismic
but i expect i mean there's been some
form of consolidation already on
training and coaching side seismic did
some equity
for example acquired lesson league we
acquired learn core
high spot created for example their own
training and coaching product show but
it was the very first to really put out
that platform vision and we've seen
basically the competition mimic a lot of
that
but at the end of the day i still
believe we're kind of like i think
enablement is at like 10 penetration
today i think it's it's still a massive
market um and
yeah so what's next let you know keep
building keep shipping great products
and listening to our customers
and scaling the business
cool
and yes
it's a familiar face so i'm a bit scared
uh
scared of the questions that's going to
come
i'll try to talk a bit louder oh there's
a mic
all right this will help um well as you
grow as a founder and as the company
grows um i think of it as a bit of like
a pyramid
like for a half a million or one million
er enterprise sales business there's
dozens of founders who've done it once
you get to like the like the unicorn
kind of
kind of region there's not that many
people who have been there but how do
you keep like finding people to learn
from um where do you where do you keep
learning as the resources grow a lot
scarcer yeah it's it's a really good
question i mean for from my side and i
think one of the biggest
journeys of going from 10 to 100 is
probably it's also very you know there's
the journey of the business you know
revenue customers team growing the team
i think there's also a really big
journey as a person it's probably the
biggest journey in in that sense as like
how you evolve and grow as a person
um
for me there's a couple of things one i
i've had you know i've had in the last
seven or eight years i've had two
different uh like executive coaches
which i which i took which helped me
more work on certain you know work
through certain kind of call it more
personal kind of grow you know growth
that you want to have as a leader how
you show up how you deal with with some
of the challenges i think there's always
i i think as you scale usually it means
you're gonna raise money from investors
hopefully they're good investors they
have
they usually have a lot of portfolio
companies which have been on that
journey
and i think they what i've i really
enjoyed a lot is like our investors
organizing you know very
you know in a very intimate setting
smaller events where you can spend you
know
obviously you know disaster is great and
in a short amount of time you can meet
you know a lot of people and have great
conversations but they all you know as a
founder ceo sometimes you also want to
have deeper conversations on some of the
maybe tougher topics and then for me
what worked really well is like for
example dawn capital or also insight
they've organized events where you can
you know connect
more in depth with peers and also then
obviously after those connections like
you you keep that those conversations
going and for me that's always been
interesting just learning from other
ceos other founders i think is probably
one of the best ways and just talking
and listening and
it's not always this 100 identical
problem they have but it's you
or other people have it it's usually
like 90 percent close and you can really
learn
a lot from it i don't believe in like
there's a fixed playbook to do this i
think yes there's a
general understanding of how to like
scale go to market and do certain things
and and solve certain problems
but i think then you have to make it
your own and kind of uh
apply that to your own business and find
great people to to help you do that so
cool i don't know how much longer we can
go for it i'm happy to take a couple of
more questions and i'm going to be here
the next two days so if you see me
you can quickly spot me with my bald
head so always feel free to approach me
so maybe a last question if that's fine
for you
is there
yes
uh thanks great talk what was the
biggest challenge you faced with one of
the three acquisitions that you had on
the board
uh the i would say that the the biggest
uh for for me the biggest challenge was
around like
really
not making the right assumption on like
how
as a as a founder ceo you live and breed
the product you live and breed the you
know the market you understand why an
acquisition makes sense you can easily
explain it in a couple of sentences it
makes sense on you know when you talk
about it it makes sense on slides it
makes sense if you look at the two
products it even makes sense if you talk
to customers
the challenge is if you at that time if
you have like more than 100 people in
your go to market organization who have
for the last couple of years have been
going to market with a certain message
with a certain
you know how do we how we looked at the
world how we talk about the world and
we've you know we suddenly started to
pivot really strongly from our side from
being you know everything starts with
content to like really being super
focused to everything starts with like
the the platform
and that platform proposition i would
say that the biggest challenge was like
you know making sure that then from
because it also it impacts product and
engineering how do you think about the
product it impacts your aes how they
talk to your customers it impacts
customer success when they want to do an
upsell
and so really underestimating
it's not because it makes sense for you
and then in here and even with your
leadership team around the table and
everybody's aligned and yes you know
then executing that i think you know
that was like way harder than i would
have ever imagined it's also great if it
then works i mean now
i think if i look at platform revenue
from show pad not single product it's
you know we're a couple of years later
now 70 of it is platform so great
but it was a it was definitely a we went
through a couple of
challenges there
[Music]
you